Hi.
We didn't this lecture we're going to learn how to save data in our car data database so that we can
reach them whenever we want.
So far we have our image we have our name artists tax and your tax.
So we are ready to save those information in our database.
I remember in order to do that we are going to leverage the app delegate functions that are automatically
created for us when we chose Core Data checkbox.
When we first create these projects I call data actually has a square like database if you have worked
with a SKU like before.
It's very similar but we're going to use SWIFT code rather than a square code.
So if you come over here to save context you can see there's a core data saving support function and
we're going to see how to use that.
But for right now as you can see it's saving those with context and it's doing something different that
we haven't seen before.
He's doing it do try catch.
So sometimes when we do some operations like going to the Internet with the euro it can't troll an error
throwing meat means it can cause an error.
OK.
So it becomes irretrievable function and then we come across in a situation like that we have to do
this do try catch it means that try this and if we get an error rather than crashing all app just catch
this error and try to find a solution to that error or just display an error message.
For example if you're going to a euro in the Internet and if you're trying to get data out of that euro
we can in fact write you URL in a wrong way so it can't cause problems or euro can be changed over time.
And this may cause some problems.
So we're going to do some context about save here and we're going to write some entity names class names
and it can do that that can be some problem and it throws an error and we have to catch this error if
we don't want to make our app crash.
So we're going to use those do try catch thing a lot.
So let's go to our Save button clicked in details we see and try to reach that app delegate functions
in order to do that.
I'm going to a sign up delegate as a variable inside of my coat so I'm going to say this is going to
be an app delegate and I'm going to take this from you I application.
So this brings us the application itself actually.
And if you say dot shared it will give me the instance of this app and that very ever over whenever
I type UI application that shared it brings me the own only instance that this class has it's kind of
the thing that we're doing with user defaults remember it returns the same instance and this returns
the same instance as well so that we can reached the same value from everywhere inside of our app.
Later on you're going to say dot delegate and this will give us the delegate itself and we're going
to cast this forest cast as actually as an app delegate with a capitalized a not UI application delegate
but app delegate cape with the uppercase eight.
So now I reached my app delegate with a Vrabel.
Now each side of this app delegate I I have a context that I want to get so I can do this on the same
line as well but it will be too much complicated so I'm going to go for a separate line.
I'm going to say context app delegate the small one.
OK.
This one a variable app delegate dots per resistant container.
So this is the container that our core data is safe doing.
And then contexts we have contexts.
So this is an NSA managed object.
We're going to work with NSA managed objects in the card data of every three of something from core
data.
It will be returned us we done in its managed object type you're going to see Don't forget first of
all we have to learn how to write data later on we're going to see how to retrieve.
So when I see so when I say contacts that say it's sais that it's going to throw an error it may throw
an error as you can see.
So I cannot just go over and say context not saying I have to do this we do try catch.
So that's what I have been talking about.
But before we do that we have to come up with a way to write our data in the database anyway.
So let me show you how it's done.
We're going to create an variable called Neil painting or Neil arts.
It doesn't matter.
I'm going to call it nude painting because our entity name is paintings.
OK.
And does new painting will drive from the entity that we have created.
So you have to say in this entity and it doesn't work because we haven't imported core data in here.
So we have to do that first so that we can reach the core data objects.
So once we got go here and we can just say close down the Siri and now I can say in this entity.
OK and as you can see and this entity description comes up.
So this is a description of the entity in Core Data and we only have one entity but we can have multiple
as well if you say that is her new object it will ask you for an entity name and it will ask you for
it context.
So this is easy right now.
Right.
We have the entity name as paintings and asks for the context itself.
And we have already created it.
So here our context here is our context so you can just say context in here.
Now that's good.
We have our new painting model me painting object.
We can add whatever information we want using this entity in here.
Now we have to go over attributes one by one.
So what do we have we have a name.
We have the artist we have the year.
So let me say attributes and I can just say need painting dot not ADD but set value.
OK so this is going to ask me for a value and the key.
So this is very simple like user defaults right now for key I have already defined the keys right.
I have already defined the attributes name.
So if you come over here you will see that we already have our attributes defined in here.
Now all we have to do is just use the exact same names.
For example in the key I'm going to go for a name first.
So for rally I'm going to go for name tags.
That text and I can actually make this force all wrapped.
And for the key I'm going to go for name so let me say a new painting that sat value.
Now I can go for artists text right so I can go for artist tax dot text and for the key I'm going to
say artists.
So far so good.
Right now we're going to have year OK so I'm going to say set value and I can get the year tax that
tax but I have to convert this to be an integer first and in order to do that of course I'm going to
use an E flat like we did before.
So I'm going to say flat year integer and I'm going to take this from your text dot text.
OK.
And I will try to cast is as as in as an integer in like this.
And if this works I'm going to say let me just delete this I write it from here.
Once more so need painting that set value and the value will be year and the key not year text but the
year.
And the key will be year again.
OK.
So there are two values last first I.D. and then the image idea is actually very easy to create because
as I said before Swift will take care of these you you I.D. thing by itself.
All we have to do is just say do painting that set value and the value at the key actually will be I.D..
OK.
This is easy.
And the value will be a you you I.D..
OK.
So if you say you you I.D. Open Close parentheses it will create an I.D. for us.
This is a universal unique I.D. And every time we do that it will create unique value for us.
And this will be kind of a gibberish string tax.
And we're going to see later on don't worry we're going to see what it looks like.
But it will just give us a unique I.D. and this will do the job for I.D..
Right now we're going to learn how to get an image because if we want to save the image into core data
you have to convert this into a data binary data first as we have seen before because we couldn't choose
UI image in the core data.
We have chosen the data binary data right.
So let me create this data from Image view.
That image and it's fairly easy to do that all you have to just say Image view that image and there
is a method from that image to create data and in fact you can even specify the compressed size when
you do that because if you have something like a big picture like three megabytes two megabytes you
want to compress it was you turn it trip data so that it won't take too much space in the database so
it won't actually slow down the process of reading or writing information OK if you say that J de tight
asks you for a compression quality as you can see every going to use this so for compression quality
I'm just going to go for all point five for example if you make this lower the quality will be lower
if you make this higher the quality will be higher but the iPhone's actually take very good pictures
right now so they will have high quality even if we do this with 50 percent.
So I believe going with 0 point 5 or 0 point 4 is going to be sufficient for us because we're going
to display this in a small UI image view anyway.
So this is kind of optional right now I can make it for our wrap.
And in order to check this we can have a lot of different kind of control mechanisms like I can make
my button not enabled so that whenever a user chooses an image then we can make those enabled or even
if we don't do that we will have our own select image J bag anyway so it won't crash and you're going
to see what I mean once we do the button thing but for right now I'm going to say set value data for
the image and now we're ready for attributes.
I have a name I have my artist I have my year my I.D. and my image now I can just call context that
set but again this will give me an error.
It will ask me to wrap this inside of what do try catch structure.
So how do we do that.
You can just say do open curly braces and under do you.
You can just say try this.
OK so I'm going to try and save this context.
And if it throws any error let me delete this.
I will catch the error in here and I will display a user something like an alert message maybe for right
now I'm just going to say print error and it saves I'm just going to say print success so that we can
keep track.
If we made this save to our database because we don't have any function to get our information right
now all I want to do is just test this and see if we can actually save this to our database so that
in the following lectures we are going to see how to retrieve this information as well.
So let me open this.
Let me choose one of these pictures like this.
OK.
And for the name I'm gonna go for something like waterfall maybe.
So this is kind of a waterfall picture or lateral I'm just going to get real pictures as far like Mona
Lisa.
Don't worry.
So a waterfall and the artists will be doubling Chie and the year is nineteen hundreds if I click on
Save and then this image does name the artist and the year will be saved on the card data as you can
see I got the success message right now of course I cannot see it is anywhere I cannot be sure if this
is saved or not but since I got the success message it means that it got saved.
Later on I'm going to retrieve those information and I'm just going to try and show those names in here.
And once I hit that it refreshes the view controller which is good I can add another picture as well.
I'm not going to do that right now because I'm not even sure if this works or not.
We're going to do this after we finish retrieving information and displaying them in our table view
and we're going to do the same bottom thing enabling and disabling to make sure that image has been
selected later on.
Don't worry about that either.
So let's stop and continue within the next lecture.